# Anonymous and Decentralized Freelance Work System: Freelance Society

## Abstract

Freelance Society is an open source project currently in development and built on top of Ethereum that allows anyone connected to the internet to participate in a free labor market for virtual work. The system consists of three entities: managers, workers, and validators. Managers provide a public job with a financial reward open to be completed by anyone. Any worker in the network can participate and submit their work to complete the job. Validators verify the integrity of the work in accordance to the original specifications of the job. If the validators claim the work satisfies the job, then the worker is compensated with the reward, and otherwise is rejected and open to other contributions. The system aims to maintain economic incentives for all parties to act honestly and efficiently allow for the process of labor to be exchanged for money.

## Introduction

One thing that can be learned through the 2020 pandemic is that many jobs can be completed purely through computers. Work can broadly be separated into four categories: gathering physical resources, manipulating physical resources, gathering information, and manipulating information. Although gathering and manipulating physical resources cannot easily be done through the internet, gathering and manipulating information can be communicated strictly through computers on the internet. This project hopes to improve the market of labor for these tasks through the internet.

Additionally, by the nature of this work that can be completed strictly through a computer, this project hopes to broaden the work opportunities to be completed by anyone. Since work can be submitted anonymously, all personal factors of the worker are independent from the labor-money exchange. The irrelevant factors include ethnicity, gender, political views, social status, sexual orientation, criminal status, economic status, college degree or lack thereof, age, disability status, country of residence, etc. Since any person or entity can submit work, the market of workers is as broad as possible. Any labor discrimination that exists in the physical world prevents economic opportunity that can be taken advantage of by this system. There is minimal barrier to entry, so any barriers of entry that exists in the physical world will repel workers from those jobs and attract labor towards this project. In cases where barriers to entry are formed by labor rejection due to nepotism, we should find a surplus of qualified workers that provide a more efficient labor system.

The system maintains an incentive system for users to work while promoting the product as publicly available. Open source has the upside that everyone can benefit from the product, but has the problem that there are typically no financial incentives to do so. Since this system requires validity checking of the product by anonymous users, it is infeasible to reliably maintain closed source secrets. But this also means that all work is publicly available which promotes an open source model while maintaining financial incentives.

## Tasks

Tasks are posted by managers on Ethereum through smart contracts. The task post has a reward(s), a link to the task specifications, the task specifications hash, the number of validators, the validator fee, the task deadline, and the evaluation bytes. The reward is an ETH amount that is deposited by the manager to the smart contract and withdrawn from the worker when the validators verify the integrity of the work. The task can have two options for completion: the first worker to submit a product that meets all of the specification earns the reward; or the worker that meets all specifications and obtains the highest score metric rated by validators among all valid submissions before the deadline earns the reward. These two methods allow the manager to choose the more important factor between a cheap and timely completion or a more expensive quality product. The link to the task specifications is some standard link to a resource that contains the data that make up the task specifications. The task specifications are stored off chain to reduce the amount of data that is expensive to store on the blockchain. The task specification hash is the hash of the task specifications file so the manager, worker, and validators can reliably agree on the task specification document. The number of validators is an odd number that indicate the number of validators for the task. The validator fee indicates the buy-in cost for the worker to have their work verified by each validator. This cost is held upon the worker so they are incentivized to produce a quiality product to not waste money and effort for validators. The task deadline is time before which all worker submissions must precede. The evaluation bytes include the first bit, a flag to indicate between 0 a reward for the first valid submission; and 1 a reward for the best quality submission. The remaining bits represent a positive integer which indicate the number of boolean task specification requirements.

## Task Specifications

The task specifications are a json formatted list of requirements curated by the manager where each requirement has some unique identity referencing an entry on The List. Each requirement has some boolean outcome of whether it has been satisfied or not, and it is necessary that all requirements must be met in order for a submission by a worker to be accepted. Along with the requirements is a block number instance of the state of the smart contract and a list of validators selected among the network by the manager. Each validator in the list contains their respective validator ID, a boolean flag whether they are an elite validator, their public key, and a symmetric key value encrypted with the manager's public key. The specifications also include a randomized list of all validators box encrypted with the manager's private key value. Given a worker encrypts this result with another symmetric key, this list allows any worker to randomly pick a set of unknown validators and encrypt their encrypted box with another key such that only the validator can identify the result as their own box.

## The List

The list is a centralized document that displays the evaluation procedure of all tasks. A link to The List is contained on the Ethereum contract along with its hash value. Each task in the list contains an ID and a succinct procedure that defines whether a given product meets the criteria for completion. Each requirement of a task proposed by a manager must exclusively reference some evaluation procedure on The List. The List can be updated such that any evaluation procedure can be added, edited, or deleted. Any update must be approved by some significant number of validators. The update must be a unit change for it to be approved. Any procedures that are updated must have an incremental version number to prevent conflicts in evaluating the procedure. The List is entirely controlled by the validators since they are the ones evaluating the work, therfore they are incentivized to only allow evaluation procedures that are reliable and repeatable. Any evaluation metrics that allow for too much variabliity will cause disagreement among the validators and this disagreement may lead to and unfair deduction of financial rewards for rational validators. 

## Workers

Workers announce a response to a task on Ethereum through a smart contract. The response post has some standard link to a server, a link to the work, a hash of the work, and a list of key hashes. To submit the response, the worker deposits (number of elite validators) * (validator fee) ETH into the submission for the validators. The link allows validators to access the product of the worker for the pool of validators to vote on the integrity of the work. The link to the work allows the validators and manager to have access to the data of the work. The hash of the work allows the manager and validators to reliably agree on the work data. The list of key hashes represent the hashes of secret keys that the selected validators use to prove they have the authority to vote on the work integrity.

## Validators

Validators are chosen at random using the Among Us Protocol from a pool aggregated by the manager of the task. The Among Us Protocol allows the validator to prove on the Ethereum network that they have been chosen to assess the requirements of the task. The validators are anonymous to the manager, worker, and other validators so it is difficult to be bribed or blackmailed by any party. The evauation consists of voting on some binary result as to whether a given submission meets a requirement, and if so the corresponding bit flag is 1, and 0 otherwise. There are an odd number of validators, so for each requirement, whichever bit flag appears more will be accepted. The validators that have their evaulations match the accepted bit flag will receive compensation for that requirement evaluation. Therefore if some agreement on an evaluation of a requirement is met independently by multiple individuals, then it probably indicates the correct evaluation of the requirement. It is possible for validators to be incorrect. After the evaluation and compensation process, the validators stake their Ether into their work, and before some deadline their evaluation can be challenged. If challenged, (2N + 1) validators will re-evaluate the task, where N is the number of validators in the initial task. If any requirement is overturned, the stake is taken from the validators and given to the manager/worker/validators who should have received the money. If no challenges are made and the timed deadline meets, then the Ether stake of the validators can be transferred to the respective validator.

## Ethics

Since this system relies on anonymous and untrusted parties to participate in the stake and contribution of work, it is possible to attract parties with unethical requests or work. If validators receive a requirement or work that can be quickly deemed unethical, then all requirement bit flags are set to 0. This makes it easier for validators to assess and agree, so they are incentivized to first consider ethical consequences. This allows no economic incentive for managers or workers to participate in the system if they plan on working for unethical goals. Since this system only exchanges virtual information, there are only some categories for which information could be harmful. No requirement or work should contain nudity in the form of a real life photograph or video. No requirement or work should contain information how to build any real life weapon, which is any item with the purpose to harm. No requirement of work should contain information to assult or harm any real life being.

## Game Theory

The rules within this system attempts to provide an incentive structure for all parties to behave honestly. Here I will go over some incentive structures that encourage parties to behave in ways that promote honesty and an efficiecy.

### Manager

The manager aims to obtain work that satisfies their needs while minimizing the financial cost to obtain the work results:
- The manager may post a task with only validators that they are in control over. This is only possible if there are a few number of validators because it is financially difficult to obtain many accounts with elite validation status. Also tasks with a suspiciously low number of validators should be avoided by rational workers.
- The manager may post a task with many validators of which a few they are in control over. Since there are many validators that could be randomly chosen, it is unlikely for the controlled validators to be selected, and especially unlikely to have a majority of votes with a large pool of validators. Also, the other validators and worker are able to challenge the biased votes of the controlled validators, and this will cause a greater pool of validators to recast votes. Having a greater pool of validators makes it significantly more unlikely for the manager to have control over the randomly selected validators. If the challenge is successful due to the controlled validators voting dishonestly, then the manager gives up the task reward to the worker and they lose the money staked by their controlled validators.
- The manager may post a task and lie about information in the task specifications. Since the manager signs all information with their private key, any inconsistencies within their data can be cryptographically proven to be contradictory, and the manager loses stake for their lie.
- The managers achieve maximum value when their task requirements accurately reflect their needs, so the managers are incentivized to construct precise requirements to be most efficient.
- The managers are incentivized to post tasks at the minimum worker market price. If the reward is too low, no workers will be willing to complete the work. If the reward is too high, the manager is not optimizing the financial cost to obtain the work results. The manager is incentivized to post tasks with a fair reward that is valuable to the workers.

### Worker

The worker aims to obtain financial rewards from tasks to maximize revenue. If completing a posted task is easier than trying to cheat the system, then the only incentive for workers to obtain financial rewards is by completing the tasks specified by the requirements:
- The manager may post a task with many validators of which a few are controlled by the worker. Since there are many validators that could be randomly chosen, it is unlikely for the controlled validators to be selected, and especially unlikely to have a majority of votes with a large pool of validators. Also, the other validators and manager are able to challenge the biased votes of the controlled validators, and this will cause a greater pool of validators to recast votes. Having a greater pool of validators makes it significantly more unlikely for the manager to have control over the randomly selected validators. If the challenge is successful due to the controlled validators voting dishonestly, then the worker gives up the task reward and they lose the money staked by their controlled validators.
- The worker may post a task response and lie about information in validator data. Since the worker signs all information with their private key, any inconsistencies within their data can be cryptographically proven to be contradictory, and the worker gives up their reward for the lie.
- Any worker is able to attempt work for any task in the publicly available network for which they believe they can achieve all requirements. So workers are incentivized to spend their time on tasks for which they can maximize their reward per time span. This also means that workers are incentivized to spend time on tasks that they can more efficiently compete with compared to other workers, driving efficiency in the worker network.
